# 1. Introduction to Causality <!-- leanpub style: H1 for chapter title -->

Definition:

> Causality is the concept of *cause and effect* with all of its implications

## Structure <!-- H2 Obs style: the only TOC elements; leanpub style: chapter sections -->

Here is the simplest building block of causality, a pair of exactly one cause and one resulting effect:

```js
digraph`cause -> effect`
```
Interesting cases of causality in the real world are more complex than that. In essence, however, they are always composed of this simple building block: two elements with one causal link.

Composing multiple building blocks produces a network of cause-and-effect. I use the term *causal network* for it.

## Causality in our World

Causality is present everywhere in our physical and intellectual world.

While causality could also be used to reason about philosophy or metaphysical phenomena, this document focusses on the fact-based facets of causality.

## Presentation

Personally I find it easier to think about causality when I can visualize it. I hope it is similar for you. This is why I use diagrams to illustrate the concepts. I call them ***Value Maps***.

Some people might call such diagrams *mind maps*, which fits in a way because the elements in the diagram show linked ideas which we may have in mind. This is where the similarity ends, however. The popular diagram type of a *mind map* is based on the concept of a *tree*, which is a specific and limited kind of network (see [Topology](#topology)).

```js 
import{ digraph, digraph2svg, visco } from "@kxfm/browser"
```
